# Cyborg Security - Transcript

I would like to acknowledge the Wurundjeri people of the Kulin Nation, on whose land this presentation was recorded.  This is, and always will be, Aboriginal land.  Their sovereignty was never ceded.  Despite the somewhat idiosyncratic nature of this presentation, I would also like to acknowledge the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander mentors that I had growing up.  Although it's not their traditional type of stories, I would not be able to tell stories the way that I did if I hadn't had the benefit of their teachings.

Good day to you all!  It is wonderful to see you all here today for this briefing on Cyborg Security.  I hope that you all found the briefing centre alright. Now, before we commence, there is some additional data which all of you are going to need.  If you wish to take out the devices with which you have been issued - you will find them in your pockets - and scan the detailed information which is up on the big screen currently, ah, you will be taken to all of the additional data that you need in order to follow along with this briefing.

So you want to be a cyborg?  Well, you've come to the right place.  I, myself, have many years of experience in both medico-cybernetics and recreational cybernetics; and, if you're wondering how I got that, well, the simple answer is [walking stick clunks].  I've been involved in cyborg communities for many years, and what I hope to present to you today is an honest briefing on the benefits and pitfalls, if you will, of becoming part of the recreational Internet of Things network.

Now, when I talk about the history of medico-cybernetics, my experience is not just in the low-tech augment medico-cybernetics field; I have, in fact, at various points, been hooked up to many devices, ah, some of which have, at points, been life-sustaining, and others have- others of which have been more used for their advanced monitoring functions, shall we say.  Now, the thing that's worth understanding here is that even those devices which are used for advanced monitoring functions do come with pitfalls.  The point at which you bridge the gap between simply augmenting yourself physically and deciding that you wish to connect yourself up to the Internet of Things network is the point at which you need to become much more careful about the data that you might be transmitting and how that data might be used.

Now, I'm not just talking about this from personal experience here.  There has in fact been a lot of great work done by the folks at the independent broadcasting station ProPublica - you may have heard of them.  It- it frequently appears that, ah, as far as many people in our circles, shall we say, are concerned, ah, ProPublica would be the nuisances.  And they've done some really good deep dives on matters of cyborg security.  It turns out that as we're progressing towards the technological future, in some cases we have, shall we say, advanced features at the expense of general safety.  Which is always rather an unfortunate outcome.  This has been very well-illustrated in many people who have experienced augmentation.  Erm, one of the early use cases for Internet of Things enabled augmentation was in fact pacemakers.  And there are many people who have explored the security constraints of those sorts of devices, including ones who have them implanted in their own bodies.  Now, the benefit there of the augment is clear.  If one's- if the- if the heart that one is issued with by default does not work, it seems only logical that we should in fact replace that with a technological equivalent.  However when the technological equivalents are used for other basic functions, such as communication, the risk-benefit ratio can occasionally be less clear.  Including in cases when the augments catch on fire.  Which, in technical parlance, we would call not recommended.

But it's not just augmentation for profit that we're here to talk about, we're also here to talk about augmentation for the purposes of fun.  And there are many, many ways in which one can recreationally explore this - recreationally hook oneself up to the Internet of Things network.  You can look at everything here from augmenting features which are not considered essential but which one might have missing.  A great case study here is the practice of hearing colour, which was popularised by a- one of the very early pioneers of the legal rights of cyborgs; a gentleman who augmented himself by attaching an antenna to his head to allow him to perceive colour, and overcome the deficit, depending on how you look at it, of achromatopsia with which he was born.  And then there are scenarios which are just far more recreational, like the idea of being able to unlock your whole house with an RFID implant in your hand, or putting an NFC chip in yourself, and then downloading all of your financial data onto it and using it as a single source of truth for everything.

One of the crucial differences between medico-cybernetics and recreational cybernetics is obviously the paradigm of necessity.  And in that case, we're going to talk about medico-cybernetics first, because it's the scenario which presents the larger number of pitfalls.  If you find yourself with a medical need for augmentation, as I have done and as many others have done throughout their lifetimes, nn- one thing that you'll learn very quickly is that in this future towards which we are progressing, you don't always have quite as much control as you think you should, or certainly as c- as much control as you might want.  Which has been very well-illustrated particularly in the case of hackable hearts.  If one finds that one must have some sort of augmentation implanted in order to replace one's originally issued heart, then one of the pitfalls that one will run into very quickly is that not only does one not have control over the piece of hardware, one might not even have access - well, one almost certainly won't have access - to the underlying software running on the hardware implanted in their bodies.

Nn- This has been explored by a number of people.  It was explored by- at great length by Karen Sandler, another pioneer of early cyborgs.  It was also explored by a couple of journalists who themselves had direct experience of this.  Erm, but the use case here which is most illuminating is in fact the one which was brought to the forefront of consciousness by ProPublica.  This, specifically, being the use-case of an obsolete device being implanted into the human body with no way to remove it.  This is what we call, in parlance, a fail-deadly safety.  One has to have this thing implanted in one's body to substitute for the non-functioning or malfunctioning organ with which one was issued at birth.  Unfortunately, when the augment fails, the consequences can be just as catastrophic as the originally-issued organ failing, if not more so.  To put it in plain language, the human heart, when it fails, does not generally catch on fire.  This has been a known issue with some of the augments which people have had implanted to replace malfunctioning hearts.  There's a bit of food for thought.

The problem is that recreational cybernetics has a similar set of pitfalls, they're just often not as well-enumerated.  How hard would it be for someone to hack that NFC chip that you got implanted in your hand to augment all of your financial data into a format which you couldn't lose?  I mean, I'm probably preaching to the choir here; I am sure that many of you have lost a certain piece of plastic with a certain chip that has financial data encoded into it at least once in your life.  But if we find that that particular piece of plastic has some sort of critical security flaw, there is a very simple way of dealing with it.  We take out a pair of scissors, we cut it up, we put it in whatever disposal receptacle we have handy to us, we acquire a new one, and we continue on our day.  Once that data is stored on an implant which is in someone's body, it requires further augmentation to update or remove.

Which brings us to the first critical paradigm of cyborg security: Understand how your augments will be updated and secured continuously.  We live in a world where technology moves at great, great speed.  It seems that any time you turn your head, some sort of new vulnerability in some sort of critical system is disclosed, and everyone finds themselves falling over themselves to fix it, *before* the whole cybernetic system performs the great collapse.  That's rather easy when all that you have to do is pull some chips out of racks, or connect your- connect whatever system you're dealing with to the Internet and run some updates.  It's less easy when updating augments, because updating augments, if you do not have a way to connect them, requires surgery.

The second critical paradigm to talk about when one is dealing with cyborg security is: not just understanding the security of the software, but understanding the security of the hardware of the augments which you will be implanting into your bodies.  That case study that we were talking about with cybernetic hearts; that's a particularly fun one, because the aug- the issue with the augment there was actually a hardware-based one.  It was not the software of the augment which was blowing up, it was the hardware that was inherent to the system as it was built prior to implantation.  And that can cause all manner of problems; because again, once it's in, it's rather hard to get it out.

The critical piece of data to bear in mind here is that the smaller the device component which is implanted under the human skin, the easier it is to hot-swap components should one discover hardware vulnerabilities.  So if we take another early example of medico-cybernetics in insulin pumps - a case study which I have explored many times in the past in terms of general software augment- general software and hardware augmentations - one of the things that one will notice about the insulin pump as a case study is that there's actually very little of it which is implanted into the human body.  The vast majority of the augment is outside.  And this means that if one cleverly designs the augment, one can hot-swap parts almost at will.  This is much harder when one is dealing with something like a pacemaker, which must be implanted under the skin for a significant period of time, and indeed is a type of augment which lies wholly within the human body.  But then, one runs into edge cases like the case of the artificial heart, where parts of the device are implanted within the body and parts of the device are externalised.

So again, the thing that I would stress here for those of you who have a specific interest in medico-cybernetics - whether it be in designing such devices, or whether you're here because you're about to have one implanted in you - is to understand how much of that device is externalised, and understand how much of that device can be hot-swapped and replaced at will.  Even if the answer is not favourable, understanding that will allow you to run a risk-benefit equation which will make you a much more informed cyborg as you go through the process.

Another salient point to highlight is the fact that if one is engaging in recreational cybernetics, in hardware terms, there are a couple of different ways in which one can do this.  One can walk into any augment supply store, purchase some sort of NFC or RFID chip off a shelf, hack around it however one pleases, and then find some way to insert it into one's body.  Bam.  You are augmented.  Welcome to the ranks of the cyborg.  But in other cases, one might be dealing with kids which are solely off the shelf.  So another critical thing to understand - if you're interested, specifically, in recreational cybernetics - is not just how much of it is implanted in the body, but how much of it you can engineer yourself, and what your confidence interval is compared to the confidence interval of manufacturers who work with these sorts of augments all the time.  If you are, indeed, a skilled hardware modifier, you might find that your comfort level is very high.  And theoretically, you would then have a scenario where you could build and implant an augment entirely by yourself, using hardware blueprints which could then be made available to anyone, in any location, on any planet.  And even if you are not entirely certain whether it has flaws, any hardware flaws which exist will be discovered rather quickly once you publish the schematic, provided that you manage to get a sufficient number of eyes on it.  Whereas if one is dealing with an off-the-shelf manufacturer, the confidence interval may be higher - particularly if you're not an experienced hardware augmenter - but you will have to contend with the fact that those schematics are often not publicly available, and therefore those sorts of augments don't go through the standard vetting process that would be expected from cyborg initiatives which are run solely by the community.

Now, back to the software for a moment.  Since we're talking about the recreational aspect of it, there's an assumption that even if one doesn't control the hardware of a recreational implant, one will have a reasonable amount of control over the software that it runs.  If you're dealing with something like an RFID or NFC chip this is obviously not going to be particularly advanced, but if you're interested in more complex recreational augments, you might find yourself building a significant amount of software - or, modifying a significant amount of software off the shelf - in order to get the augment to do what you actually want it to do.  You may also find that you come into it with a particular view of how it's set up, and that what you want to do is actually not possible.

And this brings me to the topic of managing pings.  Our hardware and our software evolve.  As the cyborg community builds augments, those augments become significantly more technologically advanced.  An important thing to understand here is: what are the capabilities going to be in 10 years' time of an augment which is placed in your body now?  If you feel that you want to take advantage of more advanced capabilities, are you going to end up in a solution where, because of the software overhead which is required to run them, you're required to modify augments or augment yourself again?  These are all important things to understand.

And then there's the necessity of - generally, if you want to go beyond augmenting and actually connect yourself to the human Internet of Things network, understanding that you will have to manage pings; you will have to manage public connectivity, and set up some sort of security to ensure that everything that you are doing with your augment is not world-readable.  That can go very badly; believe me, I've looked at some of those devices.  And on the medico-cybernetics side, mana- part of managing pings means accepting that you probably won't actually have access to the code, and you might even not- you might not even know what it's doing.  One of the journalists who became very well-known for writing about his experiences with early medico-cybernetics devices, including a hackable heart, noted that all of the medico- all of the professions on the medico side of medico-cybernetics that he was dealing with expressed a great deal of discomfort when he finally decided to shut himself off from the Internet of Things permanently and simply turn off the update function of his hackable heart.

That's a trade-off that each cyborg should be able to make for themselves.  There are times where you may want that connectivity to be available.  There are times where the risk of being hacked is so great that you pretty much want to just shut the connectivity off; where the risk of being part of the Internet of Things might mean something to do with human safety.  Doesn't really matter how much you augment yourself; although metal is admittedly better than meat, we still all have to deal with some degree of meatsack.

The worst-case scenario, regardless of whether it's hardware- or software-based is a hostile takeover.  This is where some sort of malicious actor wrestles control of your augment away from you. In some scenarios, that malicious actor may be another meatsack; in some scenarios, that malicious actor may simply be a rogue computer; and in some scenarios the malicious actor will be the device itself, as we've seen in the case of the hackable hearts which catch on fire.  Hostile takeovers are probably the worst risk scenario for cyborgs, because they may necessitate total device removal.

Now, my personal experience with this is as a cyborg whose augments are external, but I can certainly say that this is something that I have looked at in the vetting process of many of the machines that I've been attached to at various points.  So be aware of what the signs of a hostile takeover are.  As much as we are all here for the purposes of augmentation, it's still critical to listen to the meatsack.  Understand the failure states, understand the warning signs, and do bear in mind that any hostile takeover scenario may ultimately require device removal.  Be prepared for that.  Understand that.

I hope that this briefing has given you some information on whether you wish to embark on the journey yourself of becoming a cyborg.  At the very least, if it is a journey that is to be thrust upon you, I hope that you now have a more informed understanding of the risks and benefits of doing so.  If I can leave all of you in this location with one takeaway today, the takeaway that I would like to leave you with is experiment yourself.  And this begins - if you're in a medico-cybernetic scenario dealing with a device which you have little to no control over and are unable to modify - this begins with understanding what the limits are.  Making frequent requests for data; speaking to all of the various companies which produce medico-cybernetic devices for your particular use case; and recruiting professionals on the medico side who have a better understanding and are willing to work with- are willing to work with your assessment of the risks and benefits.

Now if you're going into this purely recreationally, to enhance your capabilities in some manner rather than to replace capabilities which are actively harmful to you, then the important thing to understand is that as far as you are able, you can hack these devices yourself.  In fact, if you're in a medico-cybernetic scenario and you find a particularly willing manufacturer, you may even be able to do that yourself.  Test the limits of it!  I talked a little bit earlier about insulin pumps as one of the very early case studies, and they are a brilliant example of the cyborg community coming together to produce augments which would not have been possible without experimentation.  Again - I have given briefings on this before, if you're curious about what the whole story is, go and see those.

It has been lovely to be here to talk to you all today on an area of some expertise of mine, and I hope that regardless of whether or not you become a cyborg in future, you leave this briefing today informed and with a deeper understanding of the challenges that face us as we move towards a more augmented future.
